# Fit_Exp

`Fit_Exp` is a set of scripts that fit an exponential decay curve to the linkage disequilibrium (LD) measures calculated by the ngsLD package. It utilizes the python package lmfit (Newville et al., 2016) to run a non-linear least-squares minimisation to fit the model to the data. The coefficients of the exponential decay equation and the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) for each data set are printed to the output file. 

### Exponential Decay Equation
LD = LD0 * e^(lambda * x) <--------------------Fix me!

### Usage
	% python Fit_Exp.py --input_type FOLDER --input_name /ngsLD/data/folder/ --data_type r2GLS --plot

### Parameters
* `--input_type STRING`:FILE or FOLDER
* `--input_name STRING`:name of FILE or FOLDER to analyse
* `--data_type STRING`:which measue of LD to analyse. options:r2Pear,r2GLS,D,DPrime. (the two measures of r2 are pearson calculations from expected genotypes and calculations from genotype likelihoods, respectively)
* `--plot`: OPTIONAL argument. will use an additional r script to generate a plot of each data set with the fit curve overlaid. 

### Input Data
This script will take files generated by running the ngsLD command. In this format, the first two columns are positions of the SNPs, the third column in the distance between the SNPs, and the following 4 columns are the various measures of LD calculated.

### Example Analysis
Generate a set of variable sites using ms
(http://home.uchicago.edu/rhudson1/source/mksamples.html)
	
	% ./ms 40 1 -t 600 -r 600 1000000 > Test.txt
This example will generate 1 data set of the variable sites for 1 megabase samples from 40 chromosomes (20 individuals). Theta `-t` is calculated as 4 * Mutation Rate (1.5x10^-8) * Population Size (10^4) * Number of Sites (10^6). Setting rho `-r` equal to theta will generate a human-like data set.

Use ANGSD to convert the text file to a genotype likelihood file (.glf)
(http://www.popgen.dk/angsd/index.php/ANGSD, http://www.popgen.dk/angsd/index.php/MsToGlf)

	% ./msToGlf -in Test.txt -out Test -regLen 1000000 -singleOut 1 -depth 20 -err 0.01 -pileup 0 -Nsites 0
This example takes the variable sites from ms and creates a set of hypothetical reads covering them from which genotype likelihoods can be generated. In this case, the read depth is 20. `-in` specifies the ms input file, `-out` names the resulting glf file, `-regLen` is the length of the sequences being examined, and `-err` is the sequencing error rate (a value of 0.01 is fairly typical). A `-pileup` value of 0 sets the output format to GLF and a `-singleOut` value of 1 directs all the ouput to a single file. A `-Nsites` of 0 sets the output format to ms which matches the input format.

Use ANGSD and samtools to fill in the non-variable sites to give a full genome sequence.
(http://samtools.sourceforge.net/)

	% ./Rscript -e 'cat(">reference\n",paste(rep("A",1e6),sep="", collapse=""),"\n",sep="")' > reference.fa 
	% ./samtools faidx reference.fa
This step creates a 'reference sequence' which ANGSD uses to establish relative position of the bases. The new file has the word 'reference' on the first line and is then full of the letter A repreated 10^6 times to match our 1 megabase sequence length. 

	% ./angsd -glf Test.glf.gz -fai reference.fa.fai -nInd 20 -doMajorMinor 1 -doPost 1 -doMaf 1 -doGeno 32 -out $1_reads -isSim 1 -minMaf 0.05

`-glf` provides the name of the input file while `-out` sets the name of the output file and `-fai` is the reference file just created. `-nInd` is the number of indiviuals simulated (20) which will be half of the number of samples (40) specified in ms for diploid organisms. `-doMajorMinor` tells the program to use the likelihoods in the input file to determine the major and minor alleles. The `-doMaf 1` option signals the major and minor allele frequencies are fixed and the `-minMaf` option will exclude sites where the minimum allele frequency is below the number provided. `-minMaf` is calculated by dividing the number of samples (40) by 2. `-doPost 1` signals to use the information on overall allele frequency when determining genotype likelihoods. Setting `-doGeno 32` means the posterior probabilities of all the potential genotypes will be printed in binary in the output file.    
`-isSim`?

### Citations
